{

"Traps":[{

"1":"Use a handle attachment on both sides of crossover. With cable attachment set all the way to the bottom,Grab both handles and make sure you are centered in the machine. Let your arms hang freely,Pull your shoulder blades up and in towards your ears. Let your shoulder blades depress back to the starting position,",
"2":"Use a handle attachment with the cable set to the bottom of the machine. Stand upright making sure to maintain a flat back. Your starting position will have your palms facing forward,Use both your elbows and shoulders to press the weight directly overhead,,",
"3":"Sit on a bench with dumbbells in both hands palms facing your body back straight,Elevate your shoulders and hold the contracted position at the apex of the motion,Slowly lower your shoulders back to starting position,",
"4":"Use a bar attachment. Cable should be set all the way to the bottom,Stand up with the attachment in hand walk a couple of steps back make sure you are standing upright and not leaning backwards,Retract your shoulder blades and then protract to return to the starting position,",
"5":"Stand with your feet shoulder width apart holding the Barbell with both hands in front just past shoulder width,Bend forward at the hips with a slight bend in your knees keeping your back straight,Engage your shoulder blades as if you are trying to touch them together,Release the shrug",
"6":"Place the bar on a lower rung so that when gripped your arms are fully extended and your back is straight,Grip at shoulder width raise the bar with your shoulders and pause at the contracted position,Slowly lower the bar back to starting position,",
"7":"Leaning across the back section of the bench with feet firmly on the floor and with arms hanging to the sides,Holding the kettlebell in both hands engage your shoulder blades as if you are trying to touch them together Release the shrug,,",
"8":"Stand with your feet shoulder width apart holding the kettlebell with both hands in front of your thighs,Bend forward at the hips bringing the kettlebell to the floor while you slightly bend your knees keeping your back straight,Holding the kettlebell in both hands engage your shoulder blades as if you are trying to touch them together Release the shrug,",
"9":"Stand with your feet shoulder width apart holding the kettlebell with both hands in front of your thighs,Bend forward at the hips bringing the kettlebell to the floor while you slightly bend your knees keeping your back straight,Lift the kettlebell upwards towards your chest and lower - repeat,",
"10":"Place the band under your feet. Stand upright,Elevate your shoulder blades and then depress back to the starting position,,",
"11":"Standing up straight with feet shoulder width apart,Holding the kettlebell in both hands in front of your pelvis engage your shoulder blades as if you are trying to touch them together,Release the shrug and repeat,",
"12":"Loop the band under one of your feet. The other end of the bed should be in your hand between your thumb and pointer finger,Press the band straight up towards the ceiling. Until your elbow is fully extended,,",
"13":"Use a bench or an object to elevate your feet,Lower your head towards the floor by bending your elbows,Push through your hands and return to the starting pike position,Repeat",
"14":"Anchor the band at shoulder height. Take a few steps away until the band is taut,Retract your shoulder blades straight back in schools. Then protract to the starting position,,",
"15":"Use a handle attachment with the cable set to the bottom of the machine,Pull your elbows straight up toward the ceiling until the attachment is just below your chin then extend until your elbows are fully extended,,",
"16":"Use a bench or an object like a chair to elevate your feet,Slowly lower your body (scapula) while keeping your elbows locked (this is key),Slowly raise your body back to the start position,",
"17":"Stand upright with your feet shoulder width apart,Place your left hand on your head and gently pull your head down towards your left shoulder. Then return to centre point,Repeat using your right hand pulling towards your right shoulder,",
"18":"Keeping your chest facing forward turn your head 90 degrees to the left. Then return to centre point,Stand upright with your feet shoulder width apart,Repeat turning your head in the other direction,",
"19":"Stand upright with your feet shoulder width apart,Nod your head forward bringing your chin to your chest,You will feel the stretch across your neck,"

}]

,"Shoulders":[{


"1":"Start the barbell across your upper chest below your chin,Raise the barbell upwards and pause at the contracted position above your head,Lower the weights back to starting position,",
"2":"Sit on a bench with back support. Raise the dumbbells to shoulder height with your palms forward,Raise the dumbbells upwards and pause at the contracted position,Lower the weights back to starting position,",
"3":"Stand up straight with dumbbells at either side palms facing your hips,Raise your arms on either side with a slight bend in your elbow until they are parallel with the floor. Pause at the top of the motion,Slowly return your arms down to starting position,",
"4":"Grab two dumbbells while standing upright with the dumbbells at your side,Raise the two dumbbells with your elbows being fully extended until the dumbbells are eye level,Lower the weights in a controlled manner to the starting position and repeat,",
"5":"With dumbbells in either hand bend your knees with your feet slightly bowed out Arch your back above your knees and start with the weights touching in front of your chest,With bent elbows raise your arms up to shoulder level pausing at the at the end of the motion,Slowly lower your arms back to starting position,",
"6":"Facing the pulley pull the weight towards you while keeping your arms parallel to the ground,Pull your hands back to both sides of your head and hold the position,Slowly return weight to starting position. Repeat,",
"7":"With dumbbells in either hand bend your knees with your feet slightly bowed out. Arch your back above your knees and start with the weights touching in front of your chest,With bent elbows raise your arms up to shoulder level pausing at the at the end of the motion,Slowly lower your arms back to starting position,",
"8":"Use a handle attachment with the cable set to the bottom of the machine. Stand upright making sure to maintain a flat back. Your starting position will have your palms facing forward,Use both your elbows and shoulders to press the weight directly overhead,,",
"9":"Grab the band with a shoulder width grip. Point your arms straight in front of you,Retract your shoulder blades and shoulder joint until the band taps your chest,,",
"10":"Use a handle attachment with the cable set all the way to the bottom of the machine,You should vertically abduct at the shoulder raising your arm straight out to the side,Raise until your arm is parallel with the ground and then back to the starting position,",
"11":"Loop the band under one of your feet. The other end of the bed should be in your hand between your thumb and pointer finger,Press the band straight up towards the ceiling. Until your elbow is fully extended,,",
"12":"Anchor the band at eye level. Take a few steps away until the band is taut,Use an overhand grip with both hands. Pull the band to the bridge of your nose flaring your elbows out,,",
"13":"Use a bench or an object to elevate your feet,Lower your head towards the floor by bending your elbows,Push through your hands and return to the starting pike position,Repeat",
"14":"Use a handle attachment or no attachment at all. The cable should be set to the top,Walk a few steps away with the cable coming from the opposing side of the working arm,From there your shoulders should horizontally abduct and adduct while your elbows stay in a fixed position,",
"15":"Grab the band at shoulder width. Raise your arms straight out to the side,The band should scrape against your shirt,,",
"16":"Use a bench to elevate your feet,Put your hands slightly wider than shoulder-width,Slowly lower your body until your chest almost touches the ground,Raise your body until you almost lock your elbows",
"17":"Grip the edge of the bench with your hands Keep your feet together and legs straight,Lower your body straight down,Slowly press back up to the starting point,TIP: Make this harder by raising your feet off the floor and adding weight",
"18":"Anchor the band at shoulder height. Take a few steps away until the band is taut,Retract your shoulder blades straight back in schools. Then protract to the starting position,,",
"19":"Stand on the band with one or 2 feet depending on how heavy you want the band to be,With your elbows extended raise your fists straight up to the ceiling until they are at eye level,,",
"20":"Use a handle attachment with the cable set to the bottom of the machine,Pull your elbows straight up toward the ceiling until the attachment is just below your chin then extend until your elbows are fully extended,,",
"21":"Use a bench or an object like a chair to elevate your feet,Slowly lower your body (scapula) while keeping your elbows locked (this is key),Slowly raise your body back to the start position,",
"22":"Stand with your feet shoulder width apart holding the kettlebell with both hands in front of your thighs,Bend forward at the hips bringing the kettlebell to the floor while you slightly bend your knees keeping your back straight,Bring one arm behind you and rest this arm on your back. With the other arm hold the kettlebell at arm’s length close to the floor,Swing the kettlebell out and up towards the side of your body and then return to centre. Repeat",
"23":"Stand up straight with feet shoulder width apart holding the kettlebell in front of your pelvis,Keeping arms straight raise the kettlebell slightly higher than head level,Return to the starting position and repeat,",
"24":"Reach one arm behind your body with your elbow pointing upward behind your head,Assist the stretch with your other hand on your elbow to engage your shoulder,Pause for a few seconds then repeat the stretch with your other arm,",
"25":"Stand with your feet shoulder width apart holding the kettlebell with both hands in front of your thighs,Bend forward at the hips bringing the kettlebell to the floor while you slightly bend your knees keeping your back straight,Lift the kettlebell upwards towards your upper chest and then lower the kettlebell- repeat.,",
"26":"Start with your arms at either side. Begin by pushing your shoulders forward and in towards your chest,Repeat as necessary,Continue the circular motion with your shoulders pinching up towards your ears and then extending your chest outwards while you finish the motion,",
"27":"Place the top of your hand into the small of your back your arm at a 90° angle,Hold your elbow with the other arm and slowly pull the arm forward until you feel your shoulder engaged in the stretch. Pause at the apex of the stretch and return to the starting position,Return to starting position, and repeat with your other arm,",
"28":"Stand with feet shoulder width apart holding a kettlebell with one hand at your side,Keeping your arm straight swing the kettlebell up and out away from your body to around head height holding on to the kettlebell firmly so it doesn’t change position in your hand,Return to the starting position and repeat,",
"29":"Stand with you feet shoulder width apart. Place one arm across the front of your chest at shoulder height press the forearm of your other arm above the elbow hooking the stretching arm with your hand,Press the arm until it is straight and rotate your upper torso to engage the stretch even deeper,Repeat with your other arm,",
"30":"Stand with feet shoulder width apart holding a kettlebell with one hand at your side,Keeping your arm straight swing the kettlebell up and out away from your body to around head height,Return to the starting position and repeat,"
}]

,"Chest":[{

"1":"Lay flat on the bench with your feet on the ground. With straight arms unrack the bar,Lower the bar to your mid chest
,Raise the bar until you've locked your elbows,",
"2":"Hold your body with arms locked above the equipment,Lower your body slowly while leaning forward flare out your elbows,Raise your body above the bars until your arms are locked,",
"3":"Position the bench between 30 and 45 degrees,Lay flat on the bench with your feet on the ground. With straight arms unrack the bar,Lower the bar to your mid chest,Raise the bar (slowly and controlled) until you've locked your elbows",
"4":"Lay flat on the bench and place your feet on the ground,Begin the exercise with the dumbbells held together above your chest elbows slightly bent,Simultaneously lower the weights to either side,Pause when the weights are parallel to the bench then raise your arms to the starting position",
"5":"Raise the bench to a 30° - 45° angle,Lay on the bench and set your feet on the ground,Raise the dumbbells with straight arms then slowly lower them to about shoulder width,Raise them again until your arms are locked and at the starting position again",
"6":"Lay flat on the bench with your feet on the ground. Raise the dumbbells until you have straight arms,Lower the dumbbells to your mid chest,Raise the dumbbells until you've locked your elbows,",
"7":"Use a handle attachment. The cables should be set to shoulder height,Bring both of the handles to your chest and make sure you are in the center of the cable crossover,Walk a few steps forward. Then press the weight forward,From there you should flex and extend at both the shoulders and elbows simultaneously",
"8":"Attach the band to an anchor point that’s about shoulder height. Take a few steps away until the band is taut,Extend your shoulder joint and elbow across your body until your arm is fully extended,,",
"9":"Attach the band to an anchor point that’s about shoulder height. Take a few steps away until the band is taut,Extend your shoulder joint and elbow across your body until your arm is fully extended,,",
"10":"Laying on the floor with your knees bent and feet firmly on the floor hold the kettlebell at your chest with both hands,Fully extend your arms raising the kettlebell until your elbows are locked,Lower the kettlebell to the starting position and repeat,",
"11":"Laying on the floor with your knees bent and feet firmly on the floor leave one arm resting to the side of the body,Using the other arm hold the kettlebell at arms length directly upwards of your shoulder,Lower your arm until your upper arm to elbow is resting on the floor,Return to starting position",
"12":"Lie on the floor with your knees bent and feet firmly on the floor with your arms to the side of your body,Holding a kettlebell in one hand keeping your arm fully extended with a slight bend in the elbow and your forearms facing upwards lift the kettlebell above your chest,Lower the kettlebell to the starting position and repeat,",
"13":"Attach the band to a anchor point that’s about shoulder height. Take a few steps away until the band is taut,Extend your shoulder joint and bring your arm across your body until you feel a contraction in your pecs,,",
"14":"Use a handle attachment set all the way to the bottom of the machine,Bring both of the handles to your chest and make sure you are in the center of the cable crossover,Walk a few steps forward. Then press the weight forward. From there your shoulders should horizontally abduct and adduct while your elbows stay in a fixed position,",
"15":"Starting in a press up position with feet wide and one hand resting on the kettlebell complete a full press up lowering your chest towards the ground while keeping your body straight and returning to the starting position,Swap hands on the kettlebell placing the hand originally on the kettlebell underneath your shoulder complete another press up,Repeat,",
"16":"Place your hands firmly on the ground directly under shoulders,Flatten your back so your entire body is straight and slowly lower your body,Draw shoulder blades back and down keeping elbows tucked close to your body,Exhale as you push back to the starting position",
"17":"Stand facing bench or sturdy elevated platform,Place hands on edge of bench or platform slightly wider than shoulder width,Slowly lower your body until your chest almost touches the bench,Push body up until arms are extended",
"18":"Use a bench to elevate your feet,Put your hands slightly wider than shoulder-width,Slowly lower your body until your chest almost touches the ground,Raise your body until you almost lock your elbows",
"19":"Grip the edge of the bench with your hands Keep your feet together and legs straight,Lower your body straight down,Slowly press back up to the starting point,TIP: Make this harder by raising your feet off the floor and adding weight",
"20":"Position your index fingers and thumbs so they’re touching forming a diamond shape,Use a standard push up position,Lower your chest towards your hands keep your elbows close to your body,Stop just before your chest touches the floor, then push back up to the starting position",
"21":"Using a raised wall place your arm at a 90° angle against it,With a staggered stance lean into the wall extending your chest,Pause for a few seconds and then return to starting position and repeat on opposite side,",
"22":"Lay on your side with one hand just in front of you,With a slight bend in your arm rotate your arm around your body as slowly as possible,Return to the starting position and then repeat on the other side,",
"23":"Place your arms behind your back and clasp your hands together,Slowly extend your elbows until they are locked then lift them away from you,Pause in this position for a few seconds and then return them to starting position,",
"24":"Raise your arms to shoulder height fully extended in front of you,Slowly bring your arms behind your back still at shoulder height,Pause for a few seconds and then return to starting position,"
}]

,"Biceps":[{

"1":"While holding the upper arms stationary curl the weights forward while contracting the biceps as you breathe out,Continue the movement until your biceps are fully contracted and the bar is at shoulder level,Hold the contracted position for a second and squeeze the biceps hard,Slowly bring the weight back down to the starting position",
"2":"Stand up straight with a dumbbell in each hand at arm's length,Raise one dumbbell and twist your forearm until it is vertical and your palm faces the shoulder,Lower to original position and repeat with opposite arm,",
"3":"Hold the dumbbells with a neutral grip (thumbs facing the ceiling),Slowly lift the dumbbell up to chest height,Return to starting position and repeat,",
"4":"Use a handle attachment. The cable should be set all the way to the bottom of the machine,Face away from the cable machine,Stagger your stance so you have a better base of support. Face your palm forward. Flex at the elbow and extend,",
"5":"Stand up straight with a kettlebell in both hands in front of your pelvis,Raise the kettlebell bending your arms at the elbow until the kettlebell is level with your chest,Lower to the starting position and repeat,",
"6":"Stand up straight with a kettlebell in one hand with your forearm facing out,Raise the kettlebell bending your arm at the elbow and keeping your forearm vertical until your palm faces the shoulder,Lower to the starting position and repeat,",
"7":"Grab the bar shoulder width apart with a supinated grip (palms facing you),With your body hanging and arms fully extended pull yourself up until your chin is past the bar,Slowly return to starting position. Repeat,",
"8":"Stand behind a bench with your chest leaning over the edge of the bench,With one arm resting on the bench hold the kettlebell bending the arm at the elbow,Lower your arm using the bench as a guide keeping your forearm straight,Return to the starting position and repeat",
"9":"Sitting on a chair with your legs apart rest your arm against your thigh and hold the kettlebell with your arm extended towards the floor,Bending your arm at the elbow lift the kettlebell until your palm faces your shoulder,Lower to the starting position and repeat,",
"10":"Attach band to a low anchor point. Point your palms straight forward,Flex your elbow until you feel your biceps contract. Then fully extend elbows,,",
"11":"Use a handle attachment. The cable should be set all the way to the bottom of the machine,Face away from the cable machine. Stagger your stance so you have a better base of support,Use a neutral grip thumb facing up pinky-facing down). Flex at the elbow and extend,",
"12":"Use a handle attachment. The cable should be set all the way to the bottom of the machine,Face away from the cable machine. Stagger your stance so you have a better base of support,Start with a neutral grip. Flex at the elbow. While flexing twist your palm. When you hit the top of the movement your palm should be facing upward,",
"13":"Use a handle attachment. The cable should be set all the way to the bottom of the machine,Face away from the cable machine. Stagger your stance so you have a better base of support,Face your palm downwards. Flex at the elbow and extend,",
"14":"Place the band at about eye level. Fall into a kneeling position,The knee that is on the ground should be the same side as the working arm. Stick your chest out,And then pull your elbow straight back. Flex your lats and then extend into the starting position,",
"15":"Attach band to a low anchor point. Use a neutral grip,Flex your elbow until you feel your biceps contract. Then fully extend elbows,,",
"16":"Attach band to a low anchor point. . Point your palms toward your thighs,Flex your elbow until you feel your biceps contract. Then fully extend elbows,,",
"17":"Lay underneath a fixed horizontal bar and grab the bar with a wide overhand grip,Pull your body straight up to the bar,Return to the starting position your arms fully extended. Repeat,",
"18":"Stand one foot in front of the other with the wall to your right an arms width away,Place your hand on the wall fingers pointing away from you,Gently lean forward keeping your hand stationary,Repeat with the other arm",
"19":"Stand facing the wall an arm's width away,Place your hand on the wall with your fingers pointing down,Lean slightly into the wall to feel the stretch in your bicep,",
"20":"Bend your arm at the elbow raising your hand to your shoulder,Using your other hand stretch the arm down to its full extent,,",
"21":"Stand an arms width away from the wall,Raise your arms out behind you and place them on the wall with your fingers pointing up,Bend your knees whilst keeping your hands in the same position,",
"22":"Stand upright with your feet shoulder width apart,Raise your arms out to your sides bringing them up to shoulder level,Rotate your palms so they are facing the ceiling,Then change direction and rotate the arms as much as you can"
}]



,"Forearms":[{

"1":"Grip the dumbbell with your palm facing upwards with your forearm rested against the bench,Slowly curl your wrist upwards in a semicircular motion,Return to starting position and repeat,",
"2":"Grab a straight bar with a supinated (underhand) grip,Kneel down next to a flat bench and place your forearms on the bench with your wrists just off the bench,Let the barbell pull down on your wrists until they are extended,Curl the barbell until your wrists are fully flexed .Lower in a controlled manner and repeat",
"3":"Stand up straight with a kettlebell in both hands in front of your pelvis with your forearms facing outwards,Flex your wrist towards your body until the kettlebell is level with your stomach,Lower to the starting position and repeat,",
"4":"Stand straight and hold the barbell behind you using a pronated grip with your hands and feet shoulder-width apart,Slowly curl your wrists in a semi-circular motion upwards,Hold the barbell at the apex of the motion and then slowly lower the barbell back down to starting position,",
"5":"Grab the bar shoulder width apart with a supinated grip (palms facing you),With your body hanging and arms fully extended pull yourself up until your chin is past the bar,Slowly return to starting position. Repeat,",
"6":"Grab an EZ bar (or barbell) with a shoulder width pronated (overhand) grip,Curl the weight until your forearms and your biceps touch one another,Lower the weight in a controlled manner and repeat,",
"7":"Use a handle attachment. The cable should be set all the way to the bottom of the machine,Face away from the cable machine. Stagger your stance so you have a better base of support,Use a neutral grip thumb facing up pinky-facing down). Flex at the elbow and extend,",
"8":"Use a handle attachment. The cable should be set all the way to the bottom of the machine,Face away from the cable machine. Stagger your stance so you have a better base of support,Start with your elbow at a 90° angle with your palm facing down. Flex and extend at the wrist,",
"9":"Stand up straight with a kettlebell in both hands in front of your pelvis with your forearms facing inwards,Flex your wrist upwards until wrists are fully extended,Lower to the starting position and repeat,",
"10":"Use a handle attachment. The cable should be set all the way to the bottom of the machine,Face away from the cable machine. Stagger your stance so you have a better base of support,Start with your elbow at a 90° angle with your palm facing up. Flex and extend at the wrist,",
"11":"Standing straight with a kettlebell in one hand lift the knee of one leg off the floor to knee height,Bring the leg back to standing and repeat with the other leg keeping the kettlebell on the same side,Repeat,",
"12":"Use a handle attachment. The cable should be set all the way to the bottom of the machine,Face away from the cable machine. Stagger your stance so you have a better base of support,Face your palm downwards. Flex at the elbow and extend,",
"13":"Attach band to a low anchor point. Use a neutral grip,Flex your elbow until you feel your biceps contract. Then fully extend elbows,,",
"14":"Attach band to a low anchor point. . Point your palms toward your thighs,Flex your elbow until you feel your biceps contract. Then fully extend elbows,,",
"15":"Lay underneath a fixed horizontal bar and grab the bar with a wide overhand grip,Pull your body straight up to the bar,Return to the starting position your arms fully extended. Repeat,",
"16":"Place your palm flush against the wall,Take one step forward and straighten your arm slowly to extend your bicep,Hold at the peak of the stretch,Return to starting position",
"17":"Place your hand against a wall palms facing upward with finger tips touching,Hold at the peak of the stretch,Return to starting position,Slowly lean into your palm",
"18":"Place your hands together,Rotate your arms and hands 180°,Hold at the peak of the stretch,Return to starting position",
"19":"Raise your arm to shoulder height at 90° to your body,Press lightly on your hand and push towards you,Rotate the arm across your body,Switch sides and repeat"
}]



}
